STAC-23751: Document procedure to lower retention on SG and recover d… (#119)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/setup/data-management/data_retention.adoc

When lowering the retention period, it can take some time until disk space is freed up (at least 15 minutes).

=== Troubleshooting topology disk space issues.

> In case of running into disk space issues, we usually find in the namenode a log line like `Not enough replicas was chosen. Reason: {NOT_ENOUGH_STORAGE_SPACE=1`, to deal with this scenario:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of running into disk space issues, a log line - `Not enough replicas was chosen. Reason: {NOT_ENOUGH_STORAGE_SPACE=1` appears in the namenode. Follow the below steps to deal with this scenario:
```

* Lower the retention and prepare the instance to recover disk space immediately. Trigger a helm upgrade with:
[,yaml]
----
stackstate:
  topology:
    # Retention set to 1 week in case you are running with the default 1 month
    retentionHours: 144
hbase:
  console:
    enabled: true
    replicaCount: 1
  hdfs:
    datanode:
      extraEnv:
        open:
          HDFS_CONF_dfs_datanode_du_reserved_pct: "0"
----

[NOTE]
====
Wait until all the hbase and hdfs pods are stable before moving on to the next step.
====

> * Trigger the compaction of historic data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Trigger the compaction of historic data:
```

[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -t --namespace suse-observability  $(kubectl get pods --namespace suse-observability --no-headers | grep "console" | awk '{print $1}' | head -n 1) -- /bin/bash -c "stackgraph-console run println\(retention.removeExpiredDataImmediately\(\)\)"
----

* Follow the progress using
----
kubectl exec -t --namespace suse-observability  $(kubectl get pods --namespace suse-observability --no-headers | grep "console" | awk '{print $1}' | head -n 1) -- /bin/bash -c "stackgraph-console run println\(retention.removeExpiredDataImmediatelyStatus\(\)\)"
----

> * Contact support to analyze why the budgeted disk space was insufficient.

Reviewer: Is this a note? Maybe we could put this statement in a NOTE admonition?

> * Restore the settings. Once the status is no longer inProgress  `Status(inProgress = false, lastFailure = null)` trigger a helm upgrade just preserving the new retention as part of your values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Restore the settings. Once the status is no longer in progress - `Status(inProgress = false, lastFailure = null)`, trigger a helm upgrade to preserving the new retention as part of your values.
```
